The Democratic National Convention of 1956.
The Democratic Party and the Jewish Supporting with all of your heart.
I just can't say too many nice things about you April.
I think I'm going to demand equal time now.
I was able to go down in 1948 to Chattanooga and to say good word for you.
I'm proud to see the fight you put up for the things you and I believe in all over the country and in the Senate.
I want to congratulate you on the fight you put up this year and on the way you have taken it.
I know you're going to be in pitching for the Democratic cause this year and next year and always.
Bless you, Estes.
I want to say to both of you that I'm very proud to be the chef for this low pitch.
I'm proud to see the fight you put up for the Democratic cause this year and I believe in all over the country.
I'm proud to see the fight you put up this year and I believe in all over the country.
I hope we can have a good visit together and I think it's a grand that we can leave this convention completely united with no differences between us.
On that basis, I'm sure we can have a victory and November that's going to give us a chance to carry on for the principles that you and I believe in.
The Jewish press so well.
I won't demand equal time on this because I agree with what you say.
Why don't you go and take more time here doing my well.
I think you want to get on with the program.
I might trade places with the other music.
Thank you both, John Oman Estesky for having us at the Blackstone Hotel at his headquarters there where we heard Ned Calmer interviewing a moment ago.
Governor Avril Haramon, who just a moment ago, made a statement after Adley Stevenson's victory on the floor of this convention.
The wide popularity which Senator Kiefer has won during the primary campaign gives him an inside track for the second spot on the Democratic Tickets.
Adley Stevenson's unprecedented decision to leave the choice of his running mate to an open convention starts to Kiefer Benwagon rolling again.
His nominations are opened on Friday, August 17th, 5th and final day of the convention.
Alaska.
Mr. Chairman, favoring the nomination of a great American whose name will soon be before you.
A great champion of statehood for Alaska and Hawaii Alaska passes.
Arizona.
Mr. Chairman, the great state of Arizona yields to the great state of Ohio to place the name of Estesky for offering the nomination.
The chair recognizes the honorable Mike the Sal of the state of Ohio.
Mr. Chairman and my fellow delegates, after the many long days of speeches,
to which we have listened, I hope to make this a simple and direct statement of why I am placing in nomination the name of Estesky Father.
The old story is the story of a man who had two sons, one who went to see and the other became vice president, and neither was ever heard of again.
But today in this new era with world problems becoming more complex and our national economy subject to many stresses and strains,
the post-device president looms as more of a co-partnership with the presidency than a traditional breeder type of vice president that made the old story so accurate.
The man that we name today as our candidate for vice president must appear in the minds of the people as a man who on his own, but step into the presidency and serve the country.
Human in our time have so totally captivated the hearts and minds of the rank and file America.
Whether they live on the farm, work in our factory, or engage in the business and commerce of the nation, these men know Estesky Father and they like him.
Estesky Father's record as a member of Congress has been distinguished by a willingness to face problems regardless of the political consequences.
He has spoken out on issues where courage was required.
He has spoken out intelligently with a firm concept of what our Bill of Rights was intended to mean at the time it was written.
He has been possessed with historic insight into the problems of people as they attempt to work together in developing government and their resources.
As a member of the House, he was looked to as an expert in the legislative process and his book on the subject is now used as a text by many political scientists when the problem is being discussed.
Long ago, he foresaw the problems of the world as few foresaw them.
As a member of the Senate, he electrified the American people with his exposure of crime and the related racketeering that caused the American people so much in loss of morale and which contributed so greatly to the loss of fate in the operation of government.
But even though we consider him as a great legislator, we have to consider him even more as a fine human being with sound basic motivation who service to his nation and to his party have been given unstinately regardless of the physical exhaustion and the financial sacrifices required.
I suppose I shall never forget the picture of Estes Keefer in 1952, living this convention hall, having lost the greatest honor that this country can afford.
He was not a poor loser who sought. He was a gallant partner in an effort to elect Adelaide Stevenson in 1952.
If he had been the nominee himself, his effort could not have been greater.
I know of so many state chairman and Tony Chairman who called incessantly because they felt Estes Keefer would talk the kind of language the people in their area would recognize and appreciate.
Today the picture of this man is still undiminished. He entered many of the primaries. He worked incessantly and yet when the time came he recognized the will of those primaries and without offer, without hope of personal advancement, he released his delegates in order that this convention might not be deadlocked.
The frail of these of human life being what they are, we cannot afford to give any lesser consideration to the choice of a vice president than to a president.
If you can deny that in the eyes of the country the two democratic candidates of highest stature, of widest acceptance and of most popular approval are Adelaide Stevenson and Estes Keefer.
The spirit of America is awakened, the conscience of America is a road. Together Adelaide Stevenson and Estes Keefer will be the voices of that spirit. They will be the keepers of that conscience. I give you Estes Keefer.
After that the situation opens Jackson reports but that they seem to lean toward Kennedy if it goes to a third ballot.
A man from the far west who in 1954 took a Republican out of the United States Senate.
I take pleasure in presenting Senator Hugh Berger of the state of Artichoke.
72 of Michigan's 88 member delegation have voted now to favor Keith Auver. The five votes for Humphrey and three votes still undecided.
The state-waste president, ex-president of the United States, has urged upon our party candidates of fighting quality.
Let us give to the nation the only two candidates in our party who took their policies to the people. Adelaide Stevenson and Estes Keefer.
Our delegation from Oregon is pledged to Estes Keefer for vice president because he toured the by-roads, the back roads and the high roads of our state.
And I say to you candidly that the return to the Senate of the great American who addressed you on Tuesday night would be greatly enhanced by the presence of Estes Keefer on our national ticket and I refer to Wayne Elmors.
Two of the great issues on which the Democratic Party must campaign are farm policy and natural resources. Estes Keefer is thoroughly familiar with both of these great issues.
Americans of all parties and all creeds are weary of the pillaging of our forests and our rivers and our wildlife by under the present national administration.
Estes Keefer understands this great question. He led in exposing the Dixon Degs scandal. He has fought to save Hell's Canyon. Estes Keefer can talk to the voters about these issues in vivid terms which they understand.
I ask Mr. Speaker but far from lease if our free government is to mean anything. It must mean that these decisions are taken to the people.
No American of our time has so dramatized the people's state in the nominating process for the presidency and the vice presidency as has Estes Keefer.
Mr. Speaker the selection of Estes Keefer will go thrilling down the line through all our country as a symbol of democracy at the grassroots.
High second denomination of Estes Keefer.
Next I take great pleasure in presenting a young man that I have known ever since his father went into the white house.
He is now a distinguished and able congressman from the great state of California. I take great pleasure in presenting congressman James Roosevelt.
Mr. Speaker my fellow delegates and my fellow Americans let me say first that we all rejoice at the wonderful group of outstanding vice presidential candidates available to the Democratic Party.
We of California are determined to remove from public life the present California in that office.
Speaking however only as one individual I hope our choice will be the best man to bring additional strength and power to the leadership of Adley Stevenson.
Who has proven that he has the trust of the great forming and rural people of our country. Estes Keefer.
Who has led the successful fight to improve the social security of our eldest citizen Estes Keefer.
Who has fought for the opportunity of small businessmen to stay alive and prosper in our country. Estes Keefer.
Who exposed the infamous scandal of Nixon, Dixon and Yeesh it was Estes Keefer.
Who can and will cover the highways and the byways the sidewalks of our country. Meeting and inspiring people to vote for the Democratic Party. Estes Keefer.
And Mr. Speaker one of our great symbols of rugged playing honest democracy is the man whose nomination I have the honor to second as our vice presidential candidate Estes Keefer of Tennessee.
With balloting underway the vice presidential contest quickly becomes a neck and neck race between Keith Auber and Senator John Kennedy of Massachusetts.
Deadlocked and the first ballot delegates go into a second roll call and slowly the tide begins to turn in favor of the senator from Tennessee.
Texas 56 vote. Texas proudly cast its vote for that fighting sailor who wears the scars of battle in that fearless senator.
The next vice president of the United States, John Kennedy of Massachusetts.
And with that big block of votes, Kennedy has now gained 269 and a half votes over his first ballot strength.
The total strength there was 304 and we have 10 states or so left to count. His strength with his first ballot added to the ads on this ballot.
Give him some 573 votes.
The next vote. Utah 12 votes.
Mrs. CL Jack from the great state of Utah. Keith Auber 11, Hubfries 1.
That's a two vote gain for Keith Auber and total gain of 41 and a half on this ballot.
That's a two vote gain.
Utah. Keith Auber 11, Hubfries 1.
Vermont 6 votes.
That's for Chairman. Vermont cast 6 votes for Kennedy.
Very good islands. Three votes. Mr. Chairman, the Virgin Islands, the playground of the Caribbean, votes.
The cast is vote. One vote for Senator Estes Kifovo and for that young dynamic senator from Massachusetts, Senator John F. Kennedy 2 votes.
A two vote gain for Kennedy in the Virgin Islands.
One vote. Kennedy 2 votes. Virginia 32 votes.
Our good neighbors on this particular convention plus the fact that we have great admiration for John.
John F. Kennedy, we've been glad to carry cast Virginia 32 votes for Jack Kennedy.
Virginia 32 votes. Washington 26 votes.
The beautiful and progressive state of Washington votes. 25 votes for Senator Kifovo. One vote for Senator Kennedy.
That's a one vote gain for Kifovo and Washington a half a vote gain for Kennedy.
One vote. West Virginia 24 votes.
Mr. Chairman West Virginia cast 9 votes for Keith Auber. 9 votes for Kennedy. 4 for Hubfries 2 not voting.
That's a two vote gain for Keith Auber and West Virginia giving him a total of 44 and a half votes.
It's a four vote gain for Kennedy giving him a total gain of 276.
We understand that Kentucky is waiting for recognition to switch its votes to Kennedy, which could start the Kennedy bandwagon on the second half.
Kifov for 9 votes. Kennedy 9 votes.
Humpfries 4 votes. 2 delegates absent.
West Country 28 votes. West Country 28 votes.
For Senator Kifovo.
Wyoming 14 votes.
Mr. Chairman Wyoming cast 9 and a half votes for Senator Kifovo. 4 and a half votes for Senator Kennedy.
That's a two and a half vote gain for Keith Auber giving his total gain on this ballot, the second ballot.
47 votes. It's a half a vote loss for Kennedy giving his total gain 275 and a half.
During the fall of this on the second ballot, the following states when their names were called past.
Alabama 26 votes.
Mr. Chairman Alabama cast 26 votes as follows.
Senator Gore 7. Senator Keith Auber 6. Senator Kennedy 12 and 1 hay.
Governor Clemens 1 hay.
That's on the 11 vote gain for Kennedy, a two and a half vote gain for Keith Auber.
Gore 7 votes.
Keith Auber 6 votes. Kennedy 12 and 1 half votes.
Clemens 1 half vote.
California 68 votes.
Mr. Chairman, Congressman Shelley speaking for the chairman of the Brown O's lost his voice.
California votes for Mr. Kifovo 37 and 1 half votes.
For Senator Kennedy 25 votes.
For Senator Humphrey 5 votes and for our illustrious attorney general as a compliment, Mr. Brown 1 half vote.
That's a 16 vote gain for Kennedy in California, a four and a half vote gain from Keith Auber.
37 and 1 half votes.
Kennedy 25 votes.
Humphrey 5 votes and Brown 1 half vote.
There are two more delegations with a total of 62 votes that passed on the first ballot.
Indiana cast 20 votes for Keith Auber 3 and a half for Kennedy 2 and a half absents.
Keith Auber lost two votes there, Kennedy gained one.
Indiana cast 20 votes for Keith Auber 3 and a half votes for Kennedy 2 and a half votes absents.
Keith Auber 20 votes.
Kennedy 3 and a half votes.
Two and a half votes absents.
North Carolina.
Humphrey 1 half vote.
Goal 7 and 1 half votes.
Keith Auber 9 and 1 half votes.
Kennedy 17 and a half votes.
North Carolina's votes went for Hodges on the first ballot.
So those are gains of 9 and a half for Keith Auber 17 and a half for Kennedy.
Repeat that tele please.
Humphrey 1 half vote.
Goal 7 and 1 half votes.
Keith Auber 9 and 1 half votes.
Kennedy 17 and 1 half votes.
North Carolina.
Goal 7 and 1 half votes.
Keith Auber 9 and 1 half votes.
Kennedy 17 and 1 half votes.
Humphrey 1 half vote.
A switch in two states votes now could total switch that is, could put Kennedy across.
And there are several states asking for recognition out there.
This could be it.
Good.
Convention will be in order, please, so that we might proceed.
The chair understands that the state of Kentucky desires to be recognized.
Mr. Chairman, the delegation from Kentucky, which has consistently been with the minority,
will throw this convention in Susie, Astakley joins the majority and changes its vote to John Kennedy.
Thank you.
Third wave.
Does the state of Tennessee desire recognition?